---
layout: post
title: The Negative Effects Of Digital Piracy
subtitle:
bigimg: /img/Pirates.jpg
tags: [Shocking, Drastic]
---


### TL:DR How piracy can negatively effect your life with either getting fined money, going to jail, losing opportunities and having self regrets

Have you ever got in trouble with digital piracy? You might have never heard of digital piracy. So let me update you digital piracy is when you illegally download or copy music, movies, computer software, apps, games, and etc. So why did I ask you if you ever have got in trouble with digital piracy because although many people may consider it file sharing or borrowing or free, digital piracy it is a serious issue, it carries many consequences, and it is illegal ("Risks of using Pirated Software."). It might seem like innocent act and you're not doing anything too bad, but the discount, or the free games, music, computer software, and apps you are getting from the internet or a friend who has downloaded the so called items, is theft, and it is against licensing terms by most of the  companies who produce computer software, music, movies, apps, or games. By pirating these items you might not realize but it causes the prices to go up for customers who pay for those items. It also affects businesses and companies according to the Business Software Alliance, software theft from digital piracy costs Industry’s $51 billion dollars in 2009 ("What Is the Effect of Piracy on a Business?" ). Also, piracy diverts money away from producers and distributors of items such as audio recordings and music, making those companies who make an investment in production and distribution work harder and make less profit ("Music Piracy: Major Studies Conflicted Over Recording Industry Impact.").

Some of the consequences of getting caught by doing digital piracy may include having lawsuits against you by the company that you copyright or stole from, risks of losing a job, or getting thrown out of school for unethical behavior, having to repay the cost of the pirated software, and plus any other costs if you are actually sued by a company for having stolen their property ("Risks of using Pirated Software."). Also, if it is that bad you could go to jail depending on what or how much you pirated. Even if you don’t get caught, pirating can still have a negative effect to the user. You might ask what do I mean? What I mean is you can get a high possibility of having viruses on the software that can cause future damage on your computer or device like having an entire hard drive wiped out, depending on what is contained in the pirated software or item "Risks of using Pirated Software.". Also, that will allow not getting any of the latest virus updates and program updates, due to the fact that you are not connecting to the internet that is pirated for the only use of the program. To give you a better look and more information on the negative effects of digital piracy I have recently interviewed a student from Allegheny College named Tage Boggs. The reason I interviewed with this particular student was due to the fact that he had a history of digital piracy.

**Q: How did you get into digital piracy?**
A: Well back in high school I found out from a friend he was getting free music and games. So I asked him how he got it. He later gave me this site to pirate music

**Q: Did you only pirated music?**
A: No! After doing some research I found out other things to pirate like movies, games, apps and software.

**Q: How Easy is it to pirate items?**
A: He started to laugh and said I would legit go to the site and download the item I wanted.

**Q: How long did it take to download these items?**
A: It depended on the item like movies, music, and apps took seconds to download. The games would take a little longer because I would have to transfer the game to the disc so it would take me like 15-20 minutes. The software took forever like between 30 minutes to 2 hours because of the variety and variables it brings to the system.

**Q: Approximately how much items have you pirated?**
A: He starting laughing again. Then said you might not believe me but I have at least pirated about 10 thousand dollars worth of stuff.

**Q: Have you ever got caught?**
A: Sadly I have and paid a heavy price in many ways because of it.

**Q: What was the consequence for getting caught?**
A: Well first off my mom found out and got in big trouble with family. I then had to pay back the amount of money I took from this certain company. Lastly, I got suspended from high school for unusual activity.

**Q: Do you still use digital piracy?**
A: No not anymore I have learned my lesson.

**Q: What was the lesson you have learned?**
A: Well I learned a life lesson like I have a mark on my record that made it hard to go to colleges, get possible internships and jobs. When I got caught I just felt bad for everything I took and the companies and people I affected.

**Q: Do you have any advice to give to people?**
A: Just don’t pirate yes it might be free at the moment but will be paying for it later!

The conclusion from this article is to warn you about digital piracy. Digital piracy on the outside might seem really productive because you can get free stuff and items. But in reality, piracy is really bad and can lead to negative effects like earlier discussed in the article lead to fines, jail, and costing you chances at future job and opportunities. So when your thinking of doing digital piracy ask you this question is it worth all the consequences or harm you could bring to your life?


Cited Sources:
"Risks of using Pirated Software." Inspirationfeed. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Apr. 2017.

Gray, Carolyn Group. "What Is the Effect of Piracy on a Business?" Chron.com. Chron, 21 Sept. 2011. Web. 07 Apr. 2017

Catalano, Michele. "Music Piracy: Major Studies Conflicted Over Recording Industry Impact." Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 25 Mar. 2013. Web. 07 Apr. 2017.







<a title="Privacy" href="https://flickr.com/photos/g4ll4is/8926997166">Privacy</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/g4ll4is">g4ll4is</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY) license</a> </small>
