---
layout: post
title: Who Owns This?
subtitle:
bigimg: /img/stealing.jpg
tags: [Shocking, Drastic]
---

### TL:DR Plagiarism is not a way out of life

There has been a controversial topic and problem that has been rising since the growth of technology in the academic world.  That problem has been plagiarism that has been affecting students from high school all the way to college. Plagiarism is the practice of taking or copying someone else's work or ideas and passing them off as one's own without citing them as a source (Bouville, M. 2008). Plagiarism is a big issue all over the academic world but happens the most at college. According to (Bouville, M. 2008), It happens at college more due to many factors that include stress, laziness, being busy, advancement in technology, and being an athlete. You might be wondering why athletes are in the association of plagiarism. But the biggest controversial topic involving plagiarism that a lot of people been debating over is the fact that most athletes can get away with cheating or copy someone else’s work.

Yet some readers may challenge my view by insisting that athletes don't get away with plagiarism, but I cannot help thinking that most division 1 athletes can get away with plagiarism. Division 1 athletes have a busy schedule compared to the average college student, especially during the season. For example, Jabril Peppers a safety for Michigan University would have a day that consists of a workout at 6 am, classes from 8am-10am, film at 11am-1pm, practice from 3-5, film again 6-7, and if it’s a day before the game then walk through the game plan 7-8 not including if they have away game and are not on campus for a couple of days(CNNMoney). That means the typical division 1 athlete, especially during the season, barely has any time to focus and excel in their academics causing most of them to take the easier way out and plagiarize. I’m not saying that every college athlete cheats or plagiarizes but a high percentage of them do because the fact they don’t have time.

At North Carolina University they have been caught multiple times for student athletes getting caught plagiarizing. For example, the university actually had made a lot of fake classes for their college athlete students to get a good grade to boost their average to be academically eligible to play sports because as a college athlete you must maintain a 2.0-grade point average according to (ESPN). In those classes, they would have college athletes complete little to none work and get a good grade for copying students work. For example, another plagiarizing altercation happened at North Carolina where a student exactly copied a Rosa Parks statement as his whole essay and turned it in and got a good grade where a regular student worked really hard and got an average grade (ESPN).

/img/UNC.png

My point is that many people believe college athletes work harder than anybody and should be getting paid. But unlike regular students college athletes can get away with plagiarizing and like early mention even have fake classes design for them to get good grades to boost their GPA. Again I’m not saying every college athlete cheats but the amount of pressure, no time, and stress to maintain a certain GPA leads to the fact that a lot of students not only plagiarize on assignments or essays but also test to get the best grade possible with putting the little bit to no work at all. A lot of people are against the fact student-athletes plagiarize because they think they are any other college student but in reality, they aren’t. College athletes are treated to another level compared to regular students and that leads to special privileges and getting away with plagiarism.

Cited Sources:
Bouville, M. (2008). Plagiarism: Words and ideas. Science and Engineering Ethics, 14(3), 311-22.

"UNC report: Sham classes pushed." ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 23 Oct. 2014. Web. 01 May 2017.

"Why being a college athlete is a full-time job." CNNMoney. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 01 May 2017.





<a title="A book once read ..." href="https://flickr.com/photos/kateed/13163413155">A book once read ...</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/kateed">Kate~2112</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY) license</a> </small>
